# SociologyHonorsThesis
This is Python code to accompany my NYU Sociology Senior Honors Thesis.

# The Meaning of Americanness: How Skilled Migrants Navigate the Boundaries of Belonging
## Abstract 
How do immigrants grapple with the concept of Americanness? This study utilizes a mixed-methods approach to understand how skilled migrants conceptualize and define what it means to be American, focusing on the ways in which participants’ unique immigration statuses and histories have shaped their understandings of their own national identities and their opinions on immigration. Through surveys and in-depth interviews with immigrants who entered the United States on skill- and education-based visas, this study investigates how factors such as economic contribution, cultural assimilation, and social impact lead to different understandings of Americanness and varying relationships to the American identity. Findings reveal a notable asymmetry: participants often defined others’ Americanness through cultural familiarity, while grounding their own Americanness in economic participation. Furthermore, while respondents were broadly pro-immigration, those with more secure legal statuses were paradoxically less supportive than their peers with temporary visas, revealing a tension between residency and perceived belonging. Though there is a rich literature on immigrant identity construction, there are no studies that specifically examine skilled migrants’ conceptions of Americanness and relative positioning to other immigrants, and this NYU DURF-funded project fills this critical research gap. Ultimately, this research sheds light on the ways in which American social hierarchies shape and are shaped by skilled migrants, offering new insights into how Americanness is constructed, negotiated, and redefined through the immigrant experience. 


